Well, we're going to begin off with
the hand mic and then we're going
to move to the body mic here,
it sounds like.
My name is Damien Weiss.
I work for the
Enterprise Consulting Group.
We're going to talk about moving
to Tiger Server from Windows.
This is going to be a mainly
NT-focused presentation.
So first I want to begin off,
when we were writing the presentation,
we were really doing this,
we really sat down and tried to
figure out who the main audience was.
And really we came up
with one of three groups.
And as an audience participation,
I'd like to get the old raising of the
hands just to see who we have here.
I had a bet on who the majority would be.
So the first group is the Windows admins.
You know who you are.
Go ahead, raise your hands.
See it?
Wow.
Not bad, not bad.
You guys are probably trying to figure
out a way of getting out of Windows,
maybe.
Maybe.
Maybe not.
We'll see.
The Mac programmers are admins who
are here trying to figure out a way to
convince their managers we can do it.
I swear we can.
A few.
A few more.
And then finally a consultant who's just
trying to figure out a way of making,
doing this for their customers.
It's actually evenly split,
pretty evenly split,
a little bit more heavily
towards the Mac side.
I was actually thinking that it
would be nearly 90% Mac side,
so a little surprised by that.
So for all of y'all,
you probably want to figure out a way
of ending the server licensing fees.
And we're going to take a
break and we're going to think
about ending licensing fees.
Keep talking.
And figuring out a way to
have a server that integrates.
And then finally, a-- there we go.
And finally, getting a server you don't
hear about on the news.
I tell you,
it's bad news when you have your
parents call you up and say,
"Is this machine that I'm
running on my desktop?
I heard about it on Channel 7 tonight.
Is everything all right?"
It's always bad news.
So, in other words,
you have something like this, probably.
You've got a lot of Windows boxes,
the occasional one Mac that
might be your machine,
and a big,
hunkin' Windows box in the middle.
What you want is a drop-in replacement,
something really easy,
and that's what we're here to do.
And most of all,
you want it without this,
without the axe-wielding users.
This is a -- I used to work at a bank,
and this was a common
problem that we had.
So how do you get there?
Well, since we're at WWDC 2005,
of course,
the answer is going to be Tiger Server.
In fact,
it's even in the title of this session.
So, for most of you,
this is going to be a review,
but I just wanted to
go over it real fast.
What is Tiger Server?
We're going to talk
about a few things here.
First off, we all know,
we should all know it's Unix-based,
right?
It's open source out the wazoo.
I love this phrase.
Everything just about is open source,
it seemed like,
especially on the server side.
So many of those projects
open sourced out.
It integrates very well.
There's very little issue
getting it to integrate with
most of the other projects.
It's very standard stuff.
And for the non-standard stuff,
there's a little bit of work involved,
but still very well to integrate.
And it's very reliable.
Ten years ago,
if you were to ask me if we could
have a Unix-based machine that
I could ever get on stage in front
of folks and say is reliable,
I would have had a hard time doing it.
But we've really done a really good job.
And same thing with secure.
We've really taken security and
really built it into the machine.
We administrate it through
three different applications,
right?
First one for hardware administration,
we use server monitor.
It looks something like this.
We're monitoring the fans
on this machine right now.
Everything's green, which is good.
For server processes,
we're using Server Admin to
monitor the processes and to
go ahead and configure them.
And finally,
Workgroup Manager for looking at and
configuring users and share points and
for other items such as manage client.
So what have you got?
Well,
this is the server installation circa,
what, 1996, 1997, somewhere around there.
We've got a 4.0 box, PDC on it,
network drives exchange.
And what we're going to do is
we're going to place the NT.
will be replaced by Samba.
Exchange will be replaced
by our own mail product.
There are other good mail
products out there also.
And finally,
IIS will be banished forever by Apache.
That will be a good thing.
I'm happy about it too, believe me.
So what have we got on
this migration path?
Well,
we have some Windows machines and for our
migration here we're going to represent
this with our three Windows boxes.
And down here we've got
our 3x serves and our
[Transcript missing]
So let's take a look.
First, we have to prepare the PDC, right?
So we're going to talk about this.
What is a PDC versus a BDC?
Now, for the Windows guys in there,
this is probably review.
The Apple folks, maybe, maybe not.
PDC is the primary domain controller.
You have one per domain.
If you have a small enough company,
that's one per network.
Contains all your login
and password information,
amongst other information.
It's read/write, and generally,
you try to make this thing as big and
as hunking as a box as you can get,
and you hope it doesn't break down.
For that, you have BDCs,
which are the backup domain controllers,
really just replicas of that primary.
You have as many as you want.
And it contains a copy of
the login and password.
And those two really talk to each other,
right?
There's a trust relationship
between those two,
and the BDC grabs copies from the PDC,
and it has all the information it needs.
So on the Tiger side,
what we do is-- same thing here--
Windows under Server Admin.
What you do is you have a pop-up there,
and it's set currently for
primary domain controller,
or the PDC.
And if we wanted to have it act as a BDC,
we could flip that.
Now, the important thing to know
here is that if you are setting
up a Tiger Server as a PDC,
you need to make sure that your open
directory is set to being a master.
If you're setting up a BDC,
you need to make sure you
have open directory replica.
If there's one thing you take
from this presentation today,
please remember that.
So the next step, migrating the users.
So this is where we are, right?
We've got a Windows box there
logging in to the PDC or the BDC,
just depending.
And so on boot up, as it says,
it's going to find that PDC.
It's going to attempt to log in.
PDC is going to say, oh, okay,
no problem.
Let's find a home directory.
Finds a home directory
and everything's in.
And really what we want to do is we just
want to drop in and replace to the point
where the client doesn't notice anything.
It's the same steps.
I mean, look,
it's just doing the exact same steps.
We can do that.
It's not an issue.
As you can see, we've got an LDAP cloud
above those XSERVs,
and that's where all that
information is going to be stored.
How we do that is with
the NT migration tool.
This is new with Tiger.
It's in user S bin directory.
It's a shell script that executes
a number of server admin,
command line server admin commands,
and Samba-based commands.
And what's good here is
that it integrates with
Open Directory right out of the box.
We've done a very good job with this one.
And again, that's Apple taking open
source out the wazoo and doing
something very good with it.
Actually,
I want to add a little bit to that.
About six months ago,
I was actually researching this,
and I was reading a lot of
the online documentation
that was outside of Apple's,
and I was reading the steps
that folks were going through
in order to integrate this,
and it was tough.
It raised the hairs on the back of my
head just reading the documentation.
And so, I really appreciate the fact that
engineering got together and said,
"How can we make this
easier for folks?" So,
Inti Migration Tool, how do we use it?
What do we do?
Well, here's the syntax up here.
What we do is we'll just type
in the shell script followed
by the Inti domain name,
the server name of the PDC,
the domain admin, and then finally the
LDAP admin on your 10 server.
It will take all that information
and it will also insert in some of
its own information and store these
things into varsible Samba temporarily.
including the passwords
for these accounts.
It will then go into lookupd,
flush the cache, so that way we know
we're dealing with real,
live, honest-to-goodness data,
which is always very important.
And then finally,
it will execute the heart of it,
which is the net vampire command.
Now, what this does is it
emulates being a BDC.
It fools the PDC into
thinking it's a BDC.
It copies all that information
because the PDC thinks,
great, this is it.
This is my honest-to-goodness BDC.
I'm just going to copy
all the information.
Nothing gets unencrypted.
Nothing happens to the data.
It's just the data as it was on the PDC.
And then that's it.
And then we're done.
So finally we're going to move,
or not finally, but next we're going to
move to Home Directory.
So there's two ways of doing this, right?
Or there's actually more than two ways.
There's several ways of doing this,
but there are two primary
ways that I see of doing this.
My favorite way personally is
just to mount the NT server,
do a recursive ditto,
and just be done with it.
Go in, make sure that the permissions
are kosher afterwards.
If everything's good to go,
everyone's happy.
And this works 99% of the time.
The other way that a lot of folks like
to do is do the external hard drive
and sneak or net it to the new server.
It's really up to you.
Once you have those users in there,
we can modify a lot of the home directory
information within Workgroup Manager.
So, you know, we can set the home
directory drive letter.
We can set the user profile paths,
the login script.
All that stuff is settable
within the Windows panel.
Excuse me.
Oh, yes, within the Windows panel,
Workgroup Manager.
Next step is turn on the Windows service.
So at this point,
we have prepared the server.
We've set it up as an
open directory master.
We've migrated the user
authentication data.
We've moved the home directories,
and now we're going to go ahead
and turn on that Windows service
and turn this machine,
make it into a PDC, a full-fledged PDC.
So what we do is, again, server admin,
Windows panel, flip this over to PDC,
and hit start.
Make sure that the
domain name is correct.
Important.
Seeing customers who did not
set the domain name correctly
and bad things result.
And that's it.
You're done.
The one thing that you need to do is
be sure to turn off the Windows box.
So we gray out the old Windows box there,
and now we have our XServe online.
The next thing that we're going
to talk about is mail migration.
And mail isn't as clean of a solution.
And I think most of us know this.
Mail is tough, right?
There is no good way of doing it,
in my opinion.
But the best way that I've
seen is the IMAP to IMAP copy.
So on Exchange,
turn on your IMAP compatibility mode.
It's there in Exchange 5.5
and further on.
Not there in versions before 5.5.
And what you do is you log in to
the server as one of your users.
You go ahead and you
create the entries within,
let's say,
mail.app for both the IMAP servers,
both the Exchange server and
now your new XServe server.
And you just copy all that mail
from one server to the other.
It's not as clean of a solution
as I would like at this point,
but it is a good solution
and it does work,
and we have other things that
we're going to talk about later on.
So that's mail.
On to printing.
Printing is easy, right?
If you still have printers
hooked up to Windows queues,
this is really easy.
We turn on SMB and you're done.
That's it.
You set up the queues,
you turn on SMB and that's it.
Now, what we get out of this and what
I think is more important is for free,
you get the Internet Printing Protocol,
Apple Talk and LPR all for free,
just right out of the box,
just for using our product.
And that's just a great
value add for the server.
So another Windows box put into storage.
It's gone.
Another XServe online.
And finally, the web service.
This is also pretty darned easy.
What you need to do is just copy your
files into library web server documents.
And for the three of you that
are still using the index.htm
instead of HTML reference,
no problem.
You can add that index.htm
to the default index files.
It will take care of that.
You don't need to go in and recursively
change each one of your web pages
and worry about those things.
It's just taken care of for you.
We have built-in certificates.
In previous versions in Panther,
for instance, doing the certificates
was a little gnarly.
Not so here now.
We actually ship a self-signed
certificate with the server.
works very well.
You need to just go ahead and go
into certificate and select default.
For new certificates,
it's just as easy as adding
in or clicking and getting
custom configuration,
and the pop-up panel comes in and then
filling out all the standard information
that you receive from your CA.
Another Windows machine is gone into
the closet and truly a world that
has been rid of three Windows boxes.
But that's not it.
Remote management.
For those of you who would have one Mac,
two Macs, or maybe zero Macs,
and this is just a server,
a lot of you don't want to have
to haul down to the server room
in order to make any changes,
right?
Many of us don't want to
have just a dedicated Mac.
I would like that.
That would be great.
But, you know,
a dedicated Mac just to manage a
server seems a little bit wasteful.
You can SSH in, of course,
use the command line
server admin command.
They've really done a good job with this.
So, for instance, in this example,
I went ahead and I just wanted to
see what the status of Samba was.
In this case, it stopped.
Simple enough.
Wanted to get a full status of it,
and so it dumped out a large amount of
data amongst it that it stopped still,
but also some of the configuration
data that it is aware of.
Then also wanted to see
what else I could do.
So I went ahead and said, well,
let's start the process.
Why not?
Just shoots right back that it's running.
All in command line,
no problems whatsoever.
Stopped it again.
Not an issue.
I wanted to change some of the settings,
for instance.
I wanted to change where the
Samba log was being placed onto.
And I wanted to place it onto the RAID,
so use the command line.
All this stuff is in there.
It's within server admin.
If you just say server
admin settings SMB,
it will dump out every
setting that it knows about.
You can just as easily change
it on the command line.
If I want to change the server
string or if I just want to
see what the server string was,
not an issue.
It's there.
[Transcript missing]
The solution is also the
server admin command.
What I've done here is I went ahead and
just simply said server admin command,
XSERV command equals status,
and it drops out a large amount of data.
There's a lot of -- not a lot,
but there's a couple of scripts out
there that can take this and translate
this into something human readable.
But I just wanted to go ahead and
take a quick look and see what we had.
So I went ahead and did this.
You can see what the temperature
behind the CPU1 ambient was.
And as you can see,
it spewed out 1,900,544.
An engineer told me that the way
to decode this into something more
English readable was to divide by 65,536,
and you get your answer in Celsius.
I almost, on the slide,
almost then did the
conversion into Fahrenheit,
but I figured I'd leave well
enough alone and maybe actually
learn the metric system.
supporters of metric system.
Good.
So also we can find out what version
of the operating system it's running.
As you can see,
it just says it's running 10.4,
even the OS build number.
So that's, what is that?
That's 8A428,
which for some reason I have
memorized as being 10.4.
And finally, also the serial number.
There's a lot of customers who
come to me and they ask me,
they say, hey,
how can I find out the serial
number of this box without actually
having to visit it and locate it?
I want to do this scriptably.
This is the answer.
Also,
if you want to do graphic management,
well, you've got your Windows box
and you want to graphically
administer your XServe or your Mac.
It's not an issue.
We ship within ARD a VNC server,
go into System Preferences, Sharing,
Apple Remote Desktop.
And you turn it on.
And using a client like
RealVNC or FreeVNC,
you go ahead and you can
control your Mac server and
it's not an issue whatsoever.
And you turn it on.
And using a client like
RealVNC or FreeVNC,
you go ahead and you can
control your Mac server and
it's not an issue whatsoever.
You still can't figure
out how to tell it that.
So it pops up this thing every
single time I turn it on.
It drives me insane.
But that's not all.
As we all know, DNS, we can do it.
DHCP, Jabber Server,
which is the instant messaging
server that there was a great
presentation a little while ago about.
NAT services, Firewall, FTP, VPN.
Truly, it can be the Swiss Army knife
of your network.
It can do it all.
Now,
back to that mail drop and replacement.
There's also a couple other
things I haven't mentioned.
Groupware, calendaring.
There's some great third-party
products out there.
Cario and Communicate do an excellent,
excellent job of mail service,
and MeetingMaker does a great
job on the calendaring side.
And I strongly recommend that if you're
not getting what you need from us,
take a look at these folks.
They do a great job.
Great job.
I highly recommend them.
So for other resources,
just go to the WWDC website.
There are related sessions to this one.
There was, of course,
the overview that happened and
the Active Directory integration.
These are excellent sessions.
More.
The ARD and management practices.
And there's the upcoming extending and
securing mail services using Mac OS X.
If anyone's interested in mail securing,
this is it.
I got a sneak peek at some of the slides.
I wasn't supposed to,
but I sort of peeked at a couple of
them and I was actually blown away
by how good this is going to be.